docs/concepts/connections.mdx, before:

---
title: Connections
icon: network-wired
---

Connections represent client connections to your actor. They provide a way to handle client authentication, manage connection-specific data, and control the connection lifecycle.

## Parameters

When clients connect to an actor, they can pass connection parameters that are handled during the connection process.

For example:

<CodeGroup>

```typescript actor.ts
import { Actor, type OnBeforeConnectOptions } from "actor-core";

interface ConnectionParams {
  authToken: string;
}

export default class Example extends Actor<State, ConnectionParams> {
  _onBeforeConnect(opts: OnBeforeConnectOptions<Example>) {
    const authToken = opts.parameters.authToken;
    // ...
  }
}
```

```typescript client.ts
const actor = client.get<Example>(
  { name: 'example' },
  {
    parameters: { authToken: 'supersekure' }
  }
);
```

</CodeGroup>

## Connection State

The data returned from `_onBeforeConnect` is used as the initial state of the connection. The connection state can be accessed in any actor method using `connection.state`.

For example:

```typescript actor.ts
import { Actor, type OnBeforeConnectOptions } from "actor-core";

interface ConnectionState {
  userId: number;
  role: string;
}

export default class Example extends Actor<State, ConnectionState> {
  // The data returned from `_onBeforeConnect` will be assigned to the connection's state
  _onBeforeConnect(opts: OnBeforeConnectOptions<Example>): ConnectionState {
    return { userId: 123, role: 'admin' };
  }

  // ...
}
```

## Lifecycle Hooks

See the documentation on the following lifecycle hooks:

- [`_onBeforeConnect`](/concepts/lifecycle#on-before-connect)
- [`_onConnect`](/concepts/lifecycle#on-connect)
- [`_onDisconnect`](/concepts/lifecycle#on-disconnect)

## Connection List

All active connections can be accessed with `this._connections`. This is stored as `Map<number, Connection>` where the key is the connection ID.

This is frequently used with `conn.send(name, event)` to send messages directly to clients.

For example:

```typescript actor.ts
import { Actor, type Rpc } from "actor-core";

export default class ChatRoom extends Actor {
  sendDirectMessage(rpc: Rpc<ChatRoom>, recipientConnectionId: number, message: string) {
    this._connections.get(recipientConnectionId)?.send('directMessage', {
      from: rpc.connection.id,
      message: message
    });
  }
}
```

## Disconnecting clients

Connections can be disconnected with:

```typescript actor.ts
await connection.disconnect();
```

A reason can optionally be provided like:

```typescript actor.ts
await connection.disconnect('Too many requests');
```

<Tip>
	Waiting the `disconnect` promise is not required, but recommended in order
	to ensure the underlying network connections close cleanly before exiting
	the program.
</Tip>

## Offline & reconnection behavior

Clients automatically attempt to reconnect (with [exponential backoff](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prescriptive-guidance/latest/cloud-design-patterns/retry-backoff.html)) when disconnected. Remote procedure calls made while disconnected are queued.

On reconnection, event subscriptions are reestablished & queued RPCs are executed.

Commit message:

docs: replace managing actors with building actors & interacting with actors (#654)
docs: replace managing actors with building actors & interacting with actors

docs: update quickstart guide

docs/concepts/connections.mdx, after:

---
title: Connections
icon: network-wired
---

Connections represent client connections to your actor. They provide a way to handle client authentication, manage connection-specific data, and control the connection lifecycle.

## Parameters

When clients connect to an actor, they can pass connection parameters that are handled during the connection process.

For example:

<CodeGroup>

```typescript actor.ts
import { Actor, type OnBeforeConnectOptions } from "actor-core";

interface ConnectionParams {
  authToken: string;
}

export default class Example extends Actor<State, ConnectionParams> {
  _onBeforeConnect(opts: OnBeforeConnectOptions<Example>) {
    const authToken = opts.parameters.authToken;
    // ...
  }
}
```

```typescript client.ts
const actor = client.get<Example>(
  { name: 'example' },
  {
    parameters: { authToken: 'supersekure' }
  }
);
```

</CodeGroup>

## Connection State

The data returned from `_onBeforeConnect` is used as the initial state of the connection. The connection state can be accessed in any actor method using `connection.state`.

For example:

```typescript actor.ts
import { Actor, type OnBeforeConnectOptions } from "actor-core";

interface ConnectionState {
  userId: number;
  role: string;
}

export default class Example extends Actor<State, ConnectionState> {
  // The data returned from `_onBeforeConnect` will be assigned to the connection's state
  _onBeforeConnect(opts: OnBeforeConnectOptions<Example>): ConnectionState {
    return { userId: 123, role: 'admin' };
  }

  // ...
}
```

## Lifecycle Hooks

See the documentation on the following lifecycle hooks:

- [`_onBeforeConnect`](/concepts/lifecycle#on-before-connect)
- [`_onConnect`](/concepts/lifecycle#on-connect)
- [`_onDisconnect`](/concepts/lifecycle#on-disconnect)

## Connection List

All active connections can be accessed with `this._connections`. This is stored as `Map<number, Connection>` where the key is the connection ID.

This is frequently used with `conn.send(name, event)` to send messages directly to clients.

For example:

```typescript actor.ts
import { Actor, type Rpc } from "actor-core";

export default class ChatRoom extends Actor {
  sendDirectMessage(rpc: Rpc<ChatRoom>, recipientConnectionId: number, message: string) {
    this._connections.get(recipientConnectionId)?.send('directMessage', {
      from: rpc.connection.id,
      message: message
    });
  }
}
```

## Disconnecting clients

Connections can be disconnected with:

```typescript actor.ts
await connection.disconnect();
```

A reason can optionally be provided like:

```typescript actor.ts
await connection.disconnect('Too many requests');
```

<Tip>
	Waiting the `disconnect` promise is not required, but recommended in order
	to ensure the underlying network connections close cleanly before exiting
	the program.
</Tip>

## Offline & Auto-Reconnection

See [Interacting with Actors](/concepts/interacting-with-actors#offline-and-auto-reconnection) for details on reconnection behavior.
