docs/llm/docs-as-markdown.mdx, before:

---
title: Docs As Markdown for LLMs
sidebarTitle: Docs as Markdown
---

ActorCore documentation is designed to be easily accessible for Large Language Models (LLMs). All documentation pages are automatically available as plain Markdown files by simply appending `.md` to the URL.

## How to Access

To access any ActorCore documentation page as Markdown:

1. Navigate to the regular documentation URL (e.g., `https://actorcore.org/concepts/state`)
2. Append `.md` to the URL (e.g., `https://actorcore.org/concepts/state.md`)

This will return the raw Markdown content of the documentation page.

## Use Cases

This feature enables seamless integration with AI tools by providing documentation in clean Markdown format. Key uses include:

- **Context for LLM chats**: Importing relevant docs into LLM chat sessions for specific context
- **Web crawling**: Enabling efficient crawling of documentation content
- **AI agents**: Building AI agents with access to ActorCore documentation

## Additional Resources

- [prompt.txt](/llm/prompt)
- [llms.txt](/llm/llms)
- [llms-full.txt](/llm/llms-full)

Commit message:

chore: rename actor-core -> @r-core/actor

docs/llm/docs-as-markdown.mdx, after:

---
title: Docs As Markdown for LLMs
sidebarTitle: Docs as Markdown
---

RivetKit documentation is designed to be easily accessible for Large Language Models (LLMs). All documentation pages are automatically available as plain Markdown files by simply appending `.md` to the URL.

## How to Access

To access any RivetKit documentation page as Markdown:

1. Navigate to the regular documentation URL (e.g., `https://RivetKit.org/concepts/state`)
2. Append `.md` to the URL (e.g., `https://RivetKit.org/concepts/state.md`)

This will return the raw Markdown content of the documentation page.

## Use Cases

This feature enables seamless integration with AI tools by providing documentation in clean Markdown format. Key uses include:

- **Context for LLM chats**: Importing relevant docs into LLM chat sessions for specific context
- **Web crawling**: Enabling efficient crawling of documentation content
- **AI agents**: Building AI agents with access to RivetKit documentation

## Additional Resources

- [prompt.txt](/llm/prompt)
- [llms.txt](/llm/llms)
- [llms-full.txt](/llm/llms-full)
