docs/llm/prompt.mdx, before:

---
title: "prompt.txt"
---

## Using `prompt.txt` for ActorCore

The `prompt.txt` file provides LLMs with comprehensive information about ActorCore's conventions, terminology, and best practices. To use it:

1. Copy the contents below to your clipboard
2. Paste it into your preferred AI assistant (Claude, ChatGPT, Cursor rules, Windsurf Rules, etc.)
3. Ask your ActorCore development questions after the prompt

This structured information helps AI tools provide more accurate and contextually relevant guidance for your ActorCore development tasks.

## AI Editor Guides

Read the integration guide for your editor of choice:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Cursor" href="/llm/cursor" horizontal={true} />
  <Card title="Windsurf" href="/llm/windsurf" horizontal={true} />
  <Card title="Claude Code" href="/llm/claude" horizontal={true} />
</CardGroup>

## `prompt.txt`

````markdown prompt.txt
# ActorCore Development Guide

This guide contains essential information for working with the ActorCore project.

## Project Naming and Terminology

- Use `ActorCore` when referring to the project in documentation and plain English
- Use `actor-core` (kebab-case) when referring to the project in code, package names, and imports

### Core Concepts

- **Actor**: A stateful, long-lived entity that processes messages and maintains state
- **Manager**: Component responsible for creating, routing, and managing actor instances
- **Action**: Method for an actor to expose callable functions to clients
- **Event**: Asynchronous message sent from an actor to connected clients
- **Alarm**: Scheduled callback that triggers at a specific time

## Build Commands

- **Type Check:** `yarn check-types` - Verify TypeScript types
- **Check specific package:** `yarn check-types -F actor-core` - Check only specified package
- **Build:** `yarn build` - Production build using Turbopack
- **Build specific package:** `yarn build -F actor-core` - Build only specified package
- **Format:** `yarn fmt` - Format code with Biome

## Driver Implementations

Available driver implementations:

- **Memory**: In-memory implementation for development and testing
- **Redis**: Production-ready implementation using Redis for persistence and pub/sub
- **Cloudflare Workers**: Uses Durable Objects for actor state persistence
- **Rivet**: Fully-managed cloud platform with built-in scaling and monitoring

## Platform Support

ActorCore supports multiple runtime environments:

- **NodeJS**: Standard Node.js server environment
- **Cloudflare Workers**: Edge computing environment
- **Bun**: Fast JavaScript runtime alternative to Node.js
- **Rivet**: Cloud platform with built-in scaling and management

## Package Import Resolution

When importing from workspace packages, always check the package's `package.json` file under the `exports` field to determine the correct import paths:

1. Locate the package's `package.json` file
2. Find the `exports` object which maps subpath patterns to their file locations
3. Use these defined subpaths in your imports rather than direct file paths

## Code Style Guidelines

- **Formatting:** Uses Biome for consistent formatting
- **Imports:** Organized imports enforced, unused imports warned
- **TypeScript:** Strict mode enabled, target ESNext
- **Naming:** 
  - camelCase for variables, functions
  - PascalCase for classes, interfaces, types
  - UPPER_CASE for constants
- **Error Handling:** 
  - Use `UserError` for client-safe errors
  - Use `InternalError` for internal errors

## Project Structure

- Monorepo with Yarn workspaces and Turborepo
- Core code in `packages/actor-core/`
- Platform implementations in `packages/platforms/`
- Driver implementations in `packages/drivers/`

## State Management

- Each actor owns and manages its own isolated state via `c.state`
- State is automatically persisted between action calls
- State is initialized via `createState` function or `state` constant
- Only JSON-serializable types can be stored in state
- Use `onStateChange` to react to state changes

## Authentication and Security

- Authentication is handled through the `onBeforeConnect` lifecycle hook
- Connection state is accessed with `c.conn.state`
- Access control should be implemented for each action
- Throwing an error in `onBeforeConnect` will abort the connection
- Use `UserError` for safe error messages to clients
- Use data validation libraries like zod for input validation

## Actions and Events

- **Actions**: Used for clients to call actor functions
- **Events**: For actors to publish updates to clients
- Actions are defined in the `actions` object of the actor configuration
- Helper functions outside the `actions` object are not callable by clients
- Broadcasting is done via `c.broadcast(name, data)`
- Specific client messaging uses `conn.send(name, data)`
- Clients subscribe to events with `actor.on(eventName, callback)`

## Lifecycle Hooks

- `createState()`: Function that returns initial actor state
- `onStart(c)`: Called any time actor is started (after restart/upgrade)
- `onStateChange(c, newState)`: Called when actor state changes
- `onBeforeConnect(c)`: Called when new client connects
- `onConnect(c)`: Executed after client connection succeeds
- `onDisconnect(c)`: Called when client disconnects

## Actor Management

- App is configured with actors using `setup({ actors: { actorName }})` followed by `serve(app)`
- Actors are accessed by client using `client.actorName.get()`
- Actors can pass an ID parameter or object with `client.actorName.get(id)` or `client.actorName.get({key: value})`
- Actors can be shut down with `c.shutdown()` from within the actor

## Scaling and Architecture Guidelines

- Each actor should have a single responsibility
- Keep state minimal and relevant to the actor's core function
- Use separate actors for different entity types (users, rooms, documents)
- Avoid too many cross-actor communications
- Use appropriate topology based on your scaling needs

## Scheduling

- Schedule future events with `c.after(duration, fn, ...args)`
- Schedule events for specific time with `c.at(timestamp, fn, ...args)`
- Scheduled events persist across actor restarts

## CORS Configuration

- Configure CORS to allow cross-origin requests in production
- Set allowed origins, methods, headers, and credentials
- For development, use `cors: { origin: "http://localhost:3000" }`

## Development Best Practices

- Prefer functional actor pattern with `actor({ ... })` syntax
- Use zod for runtime type validation
- Use `assertUnreachable(x: never)` for exhaustive type checking
- Add proper JSDoc comments for public APIs
- Run `yarn check-types` regularly during development
- Use `tsx` CLI to execute TypeScript scripts directly
````

Commit message:

chore: rename actor-core -> @r-core/actor (#980)

docs/llm/prompt.mdx, after:

---
title: "prompt.txt"
---

## Using `prompt.txt` for RivetKit

The `prompt.txt` file provides LLMs with comprehensive information about RivetKit's conventions, terminology, and best practices. To use it:

1. Copy the contents below to your clipboard
2. Paste it into your preferred AI assistant (Claude, ChatGPT, Cursor rules, Windsurf Rules, etc.)
3. Ask your RivetKit development questions after the prompt

This structured information helps AI tools provide more accurate and contextually relevant guidance for your RivetKit development tasks.

## AI Editor Guides

Read the integration guide for your editor of choice:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card title="Cursor" href="/llm/cursor" horizontal={true} />
  <Card title="Windsurf" href="/llm/windsurf" horizontal={true} />
  <Card title="Claude Code" href="/llm/claude" horizontal={true} />
</CardGroup>

## `prompt.txt`

````markdown prompt.txt
# RivetKit Development Guide

This guide contains essential information for working with the RivetKit project.

## Project Naming and Terminology

- Use `RivetKit` when referring to the project in documentation and plain English
- Use `rivetkit` (kebab-case) when referring to the project in code, package names, and imports

### Core Concepts

- **Actor**: A stateful, long-lived entity that processes messages and maintains state
- **Manager**: Component responsible for creating, routing, and managing actor instances
- **Action**: Method for an actor to expose callable functions to clients
- **Event**: Asynchronous message sent from an actor to connected clients
- **Alarm**: Scheduled callback that triggers at a specific time

## Build Commands

- **Type Check:** `yarn check-types` - Verify TypeScript types
- **Check specific package:** `yarn check-types -F rivetkit` - Check only specified package
- **Build:** `yarn build` - Production build using Turbopack
- **Build specific package:** `yarn build -F rivetkit` - Build only specified package
- **Format:** `yarn fmt` - Format code with Biome

## Driver Implementations

Available driver implementations:

- **Memory**: In-memory implementation for development and testing
- **Redis**: Production-ready implementation using Redis for persistence and pub/sub
- **Cloudflare Workers**: Uses Durable Objects for actor state persistence
- **Rivet**: Fully-managed cloud platform with built-in scaling and monitoring

## Platform Support

RivetKit supports multiple runtime environments:

- **NodeJS**: Standard Node.js server environment
- **Cloudflare Workers**: Edge computing environment
- **Bun**: Fast JavaScript runtime alternative to Node.js
- **Rivet**: Cloud platform with built-in scaling and management

## Package Import Resolution

When importing from workspace packages, always check the package's `package.json` file under the `exports` field to determine the correct import paths:

1. Locate the package's `package.json` file
2. Find the `exports` object which maps subpath patterns to their file locations
3. Use these defined subpaths in your imports rather than direct file paths

## Code Style Guidelines

- **Formatting:** Uses Biome for consistent formatting
- **Imports:** Organized imports enforced, unused imports warned
- **TypeScript:** Strict mode enabled, target ESNext
- **Naming:** 
  - camelCase for variables, functions
  - PascalCase for classes, interfaces, types
  - UPPER_CASE for constants
- **Error Handling:** 
  - Use `UserError` for client-safe errors
  - Use `InternalError` for internal errors

## Project Structure

- Monorepo with Yarn workspaces and Turborepo
- Core code in `packages/rivetkit/`
- Platform implementations in `packages/platforms/`
- Driver implementations in `packages/drivers/`

## State Management

- Each actor owns and manages its own isolated state via `c.state`
- State is automatically persisted between action calls
- State is initialized via `createState` function or `state` constant
- Only JSON-serializable types can be stored in state
- Use `onStateChange` to react to state changes

## Authentication and Security

- Authentication is handled through the `onBeforeConnect` lifecycle hook
- Connection state is accessed with `c.conn.state`
- Access control should be implemented for each action
- Throwing an error in `onBeforeConnect` will abort the connection
- Use `UserError` for safe error messages to clients
- Use data validation libraries like zod for input validation

## Actions and Events

- **Actions**: Used for clients to call actor functions
- **Events**: For actors to publish updates to clients
- Actions are defined in the `actions` object of the actor configuration
- Helper functions outside the `actions` object are not callable by clients
- Broadcasting is done via `c.broadcast(name, data)`
- Specific client messaging uses `conn.send(name, data)`
- Clients subscribe to events with `actor.on(eventName, callback)`

## Lifecycle Hooks

- `createState()`: Function that returns initial actor state
- `onStart(c)`: Called any time actor is started (after restart/upgrade)
- `onStateChange(c, newState)`: Called when actor state changes
- `onBeforeConnect(c)`: Called when new client connects
- `onConnect(c)`: Executed after client connection succeeds
- `onDisconnect(c)`: Called when client disconnects

## Actor Management

- App is configured with actors using `setup({ actors: { actorName }})` followed by `serve(app)`
- Actors are accessed by client using `client.actorName.get()`
- Actors can pass an ID parameter or object with `client.actorName.get(id)` or `client.actorName.get({key: value})`
- Actors can be shut down with `c.shutdown()` from within the actor

## Scaling and Architecture Guidelines

- Each actor should have a single responsibility
- Keep state minimal and relevant to the actor's core function
- Use separate actors for different entity types (users, rooms, documents)
- Avoid too many cross-actor communications
- Use appropriate topology based on your scaling needs

## Scheduling

- Schedule future events with `c.after(duration, fn, ...args)`
- Schedule events for specific time with `c.at(timestamp, fn, ...args)`
- Scheduled events persist across actor restarts

## CORS Configuration

- Configure CORS to allow cross-origin requests in production
- Set allowed origins, methods, headers, and credentials
- For development, use `cors: { origin: "http://localhost:3000" }`

## Development Best Practices

- Prefer functional actor pattern with `actor({ ... })` syntax
- Use zod for runtime type validation
- Use `assertUnreachable(x: never)` for exhaustive type checking
- Add proper JSDoc comments for public APIs
- Run `yarn check-types` regularly during development
- Use `tsx` CLI to execute TypeScript scripts directly
````
